Ordinals & Runes tutorials (#3330)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/multi-chain/bitcoin/using-btc/ordinals.mdx

Digital assets, such as tokens, accounts, or NFTs, can be attached to a satoshi, using its Ordinal number as a unique identifier for that asset. Attaching an asset to an Ordinal is done through a process known as inscribing, and is achieved by sending a transaction to the Bitcoin network that contains the satoshi to be inscribed and the arbitrary asset data. Once the transaction has been added to the network, the satoshi becomes an immutable digital artifact, often referred to as an 'inscribed Ordinal' or simply an 'inscription'. Inscriptions can be tracked, bought, sold, traded, transferred, or collected.

Ordinals are available through an open source [GitHub project](https://github.com/ordinals/ord) that consists of the necessary components to facilitate Ordinal tracking, transactions, and inscribing Ordinals with digital artifacts. The [Ordinal BIP](https://github.com/ordinals/ord/blob/master/bip.mediawiki) document contains additional technical details.

## Ordinals on ICP

> Canisters deployed on ICP can sign and submit transactions directly to the Bitcoin network through ICP's [Bitcoin integration](../overview.mdx) and [threshold signatures](/docs/current/references/t-sigs-how-it-works). Specifically, for a canister to deploy and use Ordinals, it must sign transactions using [threshold Schnorr signatures](/docs/current/references/t-sigs-how-it-works#deuterium-schnorr-release-beta) and have a [Bitcoin taproot address](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/bitcoin/using-btc/generate-addresses#generating-addresses-with-threshold-schnorr).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Canisters deployed on ICP can sign and submit transactions directly to the Bitcoin network through ICP's [Bitcoin integration](../overview.mdx) and [threshold signatures](/docs/current/references/t-sigs-how-it-works). Specifically, for a canister to inscribe Ordinals, it must sign transactions using [threshold Schnorr signatures](/docs/current/references/t-sigs-how-it-works#deuterium-schnorr-release-beta) and have a [Bitcoin taproot address](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/bitcoin/using-btc/generate-addresses#generating-addresses-with-threshold-schnorr).
```
